docs: sync/github-apps (#25569)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/sync/github.mdx

  [access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens)
  which has access to the repository you want to manage secrets for and write permissions on the repository's actions secrets.
  In the list of GitHub permissions, this is simply called "Secrets". Choosing this will automatically include read-only Metadata.

>   Alternatively, you can set up a [GitHub application](#github-application).

Reviewer: Should we slightly rephrase this so the application is suggested as the preferred method?

Should we add an info box explaining some of the pitfalls of the access tokens such as no automatic renewals and automatic revocation if the creator of the token is removed from the GH org?

Follow this guide to create a GitHub application: [Registering a GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app).
Your GitHub application will need permissions to read and write secrets. No callback or redirect URL is required at this time.
From here, take note of your Application ID and generate a private key.
```shell-session
$ vault write sys/sync/github-apps/my-app-1 \
  app_id=$APP_ID \
  private_key=@$PATH_TO_PRIVATE_KEY
```

**Output:**

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Key            Value
---            -----
app_id         123456
fingerprint    <fingerprint>
name           my-app-1
private_key    *****
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Follow this guide to install your GitHub application on a specified repository: [Installing a GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/using-github-apps/installing-your-own-github-app).
Take note of your installation ID. This can be found in the URL path parameter:
`https://github.com/settings/installations/<INSTALLATION_ID>`

Now you can configure a GitHub destination referencing the GitHub application:

> ```shell-session
> $ vault write sys/sync/destinations/gh/my-dest \
> installation_id=$INSTALLATION_ID \
> repository_owner=$GITHUB_OWNER \
> repository_name=$GITHUB_REPO \
> app_name=my-app-1
> ```
> 
> **Output:**
> <CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>
> 
> ```plaintext
> Key                   Value
> ---                   -----
> connection_details    map[app_config:map[app_name:my-app-1] installation_id:123456 repository_name:<repo-name> repository_owner:<repo-owner>]
> name                  my-dest
> options               map[custom_tags:map[] granularity_level:secret-key secret_name_template:VAULT_{{ .MountAccessor | uppercase }}_{{ .SecretPath | uppercase }}_{{ .SecretKey | uppercase }}]
> type                  gh
> ```
> </CodeBlockConfig>

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion

```shell-session
$ vault write sys/sync/destinations/gh/<DESTINATION_NAME> \
installation_id=<APP_ID>                                  \
repository_owner=<GITHUB_USER>                            \
repository_name=<MY_REPO_NAME>                            \
app_name=<APP_NAME>
```

For example:

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```shell-session
$ vault write sys/sync/destinations/gh/my-dest \
installation_id=${INSTALLATION_ID}             \
repository_owner=${GITHUB_OWNER}               \
repository_name=${GITHUB_REPO}                 \
app_name=my-app-1

Key                   Value
---                   -----
connection_details    map[app_config:map[app_name:my-app-1] installation_id:123456 repository_name:<repo-name> repository_owner:<repo-owner>]
name                  my-dest
options               map[custom_tags:map[] granularity_level:secret-key secret_name_template:VAULT_{{ .MountAccessor | uppercase }}_{{ .SecretPath | uppercase }}_{{ .SecretKey | uppercase }}]
type                  gh
```
</CodeBlockConfig>
```````

> At this point, you've set up a GitHub destination that references a GitHub application to sync secrets.
> Proceed with the [Usage](#usage) from above to continue syncing secrets to your GitHub repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now [use your GitHub application to sync secrets with your GitHub repository](#usage).
```
Style correction: write in active voice, avoid contractions, keep sentences simple

If the GitHub destination uses the default `secret-key` granularity, the values are masked by GitHub automatically.

## GitHub application

Instead of authenticating with a personal access token, you can choose to
authenticate with a
[custom GitHub application](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app).

Start by following the GitHub instructions for
[installing a GitHub app](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/using-github-apps/installing-your-own-github-app).
to install your GitHub application on a specified repository and note the
assigned installation ID.

<Tip title="Your installation ID is in the app URL">

  You can find your assigned installation ID in the URL path parameter:
  `https://github.com/settings/installations/<INSTALLATION_ID>`

</Tip>

Then add your GitHub application to your Vault instance.

To use your GitHub application with Vault:

- the application must have permission to read and write secrets to Vault.
- you must know the application ID assigned by GitHub.
- you must generate a private key on GitHub.

> Callback and redirect URLs are not required at this time.

Reviewer: Maybe worth calling out webhooks can be deactivated as well?

To configure the application in Vault, use `vault write` with the
`sys/sync/github-apps` endpoint to assign a unique name and set the relevant
information:

```shell-session
$ vault write sys/sync/github-apps/<APP_NAME> \
  app_id=<APP_ID> \
  private_key=<PATH_TO_PRIVATE_KEY>
```

For example:

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

> ```shell-session

Reviewer: I think the shell-session inside a codeblock is redundant?

$ vault write sys/sync/github-apps/my-app-1 \
  app_id=12345678 \
  private_key=@${PATH_TO_PRIVATE_KEY}

Key            Value
---            -----
app_id         12345678

> fingerprint    <fingerprint>

Reviewer: Is there an easy way to verify the fingerprint we can suggest?

Author: Addressed most of your feedback except this one! Can you clarify? Do we mean via the Github UI, or a cli command? Or both?

Reviewer: Any or both. We return this fingerprint so the logical question for a user is "what do I do with this, what is the process for me to verify this fingerprint so I'm sure my private key was not tempered with on its way to Vault?"?

name           my-app-1
private_key    *****
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Next, use `vault write` with the `sys/sync/destinations/gh` endpoint to
configure a GitHub destination that references your new GitHub application:

```shell-session
$ vault write sys/sync/destinations/gh/<DESTINATION_NAME> \
installation_id=<APP_ID>                                  \
repository_owner=<GITHUB_USER>                            \
repository_name=<MY_REPO_NAME>                            \
app_name=<APP_NAME>
```

For example:

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```shell-session
$ vault write sys/sync/destinations/gh/my-dest \
installation_id=${INSTALLATION_ID}             \
repository_owner=${GITHUB_OWNER}               \
repository_name=${GITHUB_REPO}                 \

> app_name=my-app-1

Reviewer: I think we can use a single code block instead of displaying the same information twice with slightly different placeholder syntax.

Key                   Value
---                   -----

> connection_details    map[app_config:map[app_name:my-app-1] installation_id:12345678 repository_name:<repo-name> repository_owner:<repo-owner>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection_details    map[app_config:map[app_name:my-app-1] installation_id:<installation_id> repository_name:<repo-name> repository_owner:<repo-owner>]
```
So user-defined values have the same placeholder format?
